When you’re running a restaurant—whether fancy or casual—you always have new problems to fix, issues on your mind to work out: an oven on the fritz; a salad you tasted the night before that wasn’t dressed properly; a line cook who threatened to punch a dishwasher; a customer who didn’t like his slice of cake and wrote you a treatise about it; a server who wants to talk about her paycheck, again; produce that keeps coming in bruised and way too expensive; new menus that need to be completed, printed, and uploaded to three different sites by next week. Never mind your self-imposed pressure to succeed, the bank-imposed pressure to make money, the team-imposed pressure to keep spirits high, and the guest-imposed pressure to keep the doors open and a smile on your face day after day after day.

All too often, the brutal dynamics of our industry result in the mistreatment of the lowest-ranking workers, which everyone then justifies as how things have always been done or the only way a restaurant can work efficiently. Redzepi himself has written and spoken extensively about his personal difficulties in that regard, including in a stunningly honest and self-reflective 2015 article for Lucky Peach:

I started cooking in a time when it was common to see my fellow cooks get slapped across the face for making simple mistakes, to see plates fly across a room, crashing into someone who was doing his job too slowly … It wasn’t uncommon to reach for a pan only to find that someone had stuck the handle in the fire and then put it back on my station just to mess with me. I watched chefs—mine and others—use bullying and humiliation to wring results out of their cooks … This was how I had been taught to cook, and it was the only way I knew to get a message through.

This is the toxicity that guests feasting on reindeer moss never see. But being transparent about your sins isn’t a substitute for making amends. In the eight years since he wrote those words, stories from disgruntled workers have continued to leak out. Across our industry, abusive norms have persisted even under the spotlight of a thousand cooking shows and food blogs and amid an influx of investment capital for the best-known chefs.

Later in the same mea culpa essay, Redzepi asks: “How can we rectify the screaming and shouting and physical abuse we’ve visited on our young cooks? How do we unmake the cultures of machismo and misogyny in our kitchens? Can we be better? Perhaps, the real question is this: Do we want to be better?”

The answer to that last question depends on the meaning of we. Usually left out of this equation are the lives—and dignity—of the people creating and serving that food. Diners not only should be looking down at plates for more joyful and bountiful presentations of food; they also should be looking up. Are the people in the kitchen smiling and moving loosely? Or do they look like stressed-out zombies on the brink of collapse? Food, ultimately, is supposed to provide satisfaction and joy—not just to the person eating but to those making and serving it too.

Restaurants around the globe are already pioneering different ways of doing business. At Zingerman’s Delicatessen and its related businesses in Ann Arbor, Michigan, for example, a hardy group of midwestern anarcho-capitalists has built a culinary empire using the principles of servant leadership, mindfulness, appreciation, and gratitude over the past 40 years.

Many such pioneers wouldn’t be classified by the food media as existing in the same realm as Noma, but maybe that should change. New models for the restaurant industry are already brewing. They have been for years. Just not on a table in a food lab in Copenhagen